this is a Ruger hold army replica of an
old army it's stainless steel it's a 44
caliber and it's black powder
and this is the little stand that I've
made to kind of hold it
while I load it so start by placing it
in the stand okay I've got 40 got this
set for 45 grains of powder which I dump
right into the cylinder and it fills it
up all the way these rumors will take as
much powder as you can
pour in it and I take one of these
revolver wonder seals it's kind of a wax
disc put that on top and I put a round
ball in a 0.45 seven round ball let
round ball net right on top
squish it down move it over to the I can
plunge it down
then you turn it I turn it to kind of
clean it out get some that wax built up
in there and and get a little piece of
the ball because it's really tight fit
then top of that you put another wonder
seal and this kind of acts as what we
used to use max Lube grease over the top
of it to keep it from from chamber
firing you just kind of push that down
with your finger and then you go to the
next one and this is the powder you just
use a black powder muzzleloading black
powder the next thing that you do is you
put your percussion caps on your CCI
these are number 11s
and I've loaded it in a little
percussion cap tool that you can just
easily load them load them on there them
right on the nipples you turn the
cylinder to get to the nipple and then
you just put place the cap discussion
cap on there like so just go all the way
around and you'll notice I've got my
hammer where the cylinder will freewheel
makes it a lot easier
and then you'll always want to put the
hammer into the safety notches between
each each cap that's the safety of this
guy okay now we're ready to fire and now
you're ready to shoot